Installation

Warning: The instructions on

  Safety

   related to the

  rc_viscore

   stereo camera must be read and understood prior to installation.

Mounting

The

rc_viscore

 stereo camera is intended to be mounted on a wall or ceiling above
the target area. It is not intended to be used in dynamic applications
mounted to a robot wrist. It is the customer’s responsibility to
provide an adequate mounting bracket.

For mounting, the

rc_viscore

 stereo camera provides an M4 and M5 thread pattern on its top and
bottom sides (see

Fig. 7

). A medium-strength thread-locker or Tuflok® screws must be used to
protect against vibrations. M5 screws must be tightened to 4.0 Nm, M4
screws must be tightened to 3.3 Nm.

Warning: The

  rc_viscore

   stereo camera cannot be mounted on the end-effector of a robot.


Only the surface containing the thread pattern must be in contact with
the mounting bracket, all other surfaces must remain free. At least 10
cm clearance must be provided behind the

rc_viscore

 stereo camera to facilitate adequate air flow for cooling.

Power-up

Note: Always fully connect and tighten all M12 connectors on the

  rc_viscore

   stereo camera

  before

   turning on the power supply.

After connecting the system to power, the LED on the front of the

rc_viscore

 stereo camera should immediately illuminate.

Warning: Do not look into the projector lens in the center of the

  rc_viscore

   stereo camera or into the light beam at any point during startup or
  operation.

Connecting

The

rc_viscore

 stereo camera can be used together with an

rc_cube

 or as a stand-alone high-resolution RGBD camera with the
SGM®producer. The following sections describe connecting the

rc_viscore

 stereo camera in both scenarios.

Connecting to the rc_cube

The

rc_cube

 I (Industrial Edge Computer) offers four network ports that are
labelled sensors 0-3. The two network cables of the

rc_viscore

 stereo camera must be connected directly to two of those ports. It
does not matter which ones. Two stereo cameras can be connected and
used at the same time.

The

rc_cube

 S (Edge Computer) offers one 2.5 gigabit sensor port. A switch must
be used for connecting an

rc_viscore

 stereo camera. The switch must support 2.5 gigabit for the connection
to the

rc_cube

 and 1 gigabit speed for the connection to the

rc_viscore

 stereo camera. The switch is not in the scope of the delivery of the

rc_cube

 S. Roboception can recommend a suitable switch upon request.

By default, the

rc_cube

 is configured to support one

rc_visard

 as sensor. For supporting one

rc_viscore

 stereo camera, the type of the camera pipeline must be changed in the
Web GUI of the

rc_cube

 under System ‣ Camera Pipelines (see

https://doc.rc-cube.com/latest/en/pipelines.html

). Clicking on Configure Camera Pipelines opens a dialog that permits
to change the type of pipeline to "rc_viscore". A reboot is necessary
after changing the pipeline configuration.

For connecting two stereo cameras at the same time, it is additionally
necessary to configure a second pipeline, as explained above, and to
specify which pipeline should use which

rc_viscore

 stereo camera by setting a filter expression. This is done by
clicking on Configure Camera Connection on the

Camera Pipelines

 page, or select the corresponding pipeline in the menu, e.g. under
System ‣ Camera Pipelines ‣ Pipeline .... Clicking Choose Camera opens
a dialog to edit the device filter (see also

https://doc.rc-cube.com/latest/en/pipelines.html#configuration-of-
connected-cameras

).

It may take up to one minute until the

rc_viscore

 stereo camera is connected. For each successfully connected sensor,
the connection speed and frame rate is shown in the Dashboard of the
Web GUI.

Connecting to the SGM®Producer

For using the

rc_viscore

 stereo camera as high-resolution RGBD camera, Roboception offers the
SGM®Producer, which is a GenICam compatible transport layer (see

https://roboception.com/product/sgmproducer

).

The producer can be used with Halcon, with the rc_genicam_api for C++
programmers, with the rc_genicam_driver for ROS and ROS2, as well as
with any other GenICam compatible application. It can be downloaded
free of charge from

https://www.roboception.com/download

 and installed on Windows and Ubuntu computers with an Nvidia graphics
card.

It is strongly recommended to connect both network cables directly to
1 gigabit Ethernet ports of the computer. When using a network switch,
the network link between the switch and the computer should have a
bandwidth of more than 2 gigabit, e.g. 2.5, 5 or 10 gigabit.
Otherwise, the full frame rate cannot be reached.

In the default network configuration and according to the GigE Vision®
standard, the

rc_viscore

 stereo camera will try to obtain its configuration from a DHCP server
and fall back to the Link-Local self-configuration protocol, if no
DHCP server can be found. For direct connection without a DHCP server,
the Ethernet ports of the computer should be configured for Link-Local
network. It is also possible to manually configure IP addresses of the
left and right camera.

Options for changing the network settings and IP configuration are:

   any configuration tool compatible with GigE Vision® 2.0, or
   Roboception's command-line tool gc_config. Typically, these tools
   scan for all available GigE Vision® devices on the network. All
   rc_viscore stereo camera devices can be uniquely identified by
   their serial number, which is printed on the device.

   temporarily changing the network configuration via Roboception's
   rcdiscover-gui tool. The individual cameras can be seen in the list
   after unchecking the Only Roboception devices check box.

Note: The command-line tool "gc_config" is part of Roboception's
  open- source convenience layer "rc_genicam_api", which can be
  downloaded free of charge for Windows and Linux from

  https://www.roboception.com/download

  .

For adjusting the focus, checking and calibrating the

rc_viscore

 stereo camera, as explained in the next sections, the SGM®Producer
package contains a calibration program, called rc_calib,  and a viewer
program, called rc_viewer.

Adjust camera focus

It is highly recommended to check the focus of the

rc_viscore

 stereo camera for the actual working range. By default, Roboception
focuses the

rc_viscore

 stereo camera to a distance of 1.6 m (unless otherwise specified by
the customer), which results in a working range of approximately
1.4-2.0 m. If a different working range is used in the application,
the focus must be adapted. Please note that the focus range is limited
due to the high resolution of the camera. At close distance, the focus
range is much smaller than at higher distances. Therefore, the minimum
distance for focusing should be chosen as far away as useful for the
application.

If focus adjustment is needed, the lens caps of the left and right
cameras must be removed as shown in

Fig. 8

.


The focus ring and the aperture ring (iris ring) are locked by 3
screws for each ring as shown in

Fig. 9

. All three screws must be loosened for moving a ring.


The

rc_cube

 offers a focus helper as part of camera calibration on the Web GUI
under Pipeline ... ‣ Configuration ‣ Camera Calibration. In the first
step, the size of the calibration grid has to be specified. Clicking
on Next opens the focus helper. See also

https://doc.rc-cube.com/latest/en/camera_calibration.html

.

In the SGM®Producer, a focus helper can be found in the calibration
program rc_calib after selecting the

rc_viscore

 stereo camera with File ‣ Connect sensor ..., and specifying the grid
size.

The bars on the right side of the focus helper image report the blur
of the calibration grid, thus a minimum is desirable. See also

https://doc.rc-cube.com/latest/en/camera_calibration.html#adjust-focus

.

For setting the focus correctly, the calibration grid should be placed
in the middle of the working range. Then, the focus ring of each
camera should be turned until the bar in the corresponding image
becomes minimal. A value near the lowest dividing line is desirable.
After focusing in this way, the grid should be placed at the minimum
and maximum working distance. If the blur is unsatisfactory at the
minimum and maximum working distance (e.g. near the second dividing
line or higher), the aperture of the camera can be closed a bit by
turning the iris ring, i.e. a higher aperture number should be chosen
to expand the focus range of the cameras. Please be aware that this
also increases exposure time and potentially gain, which increases
noise in the image. The optimal tradeoff is application dependent. The
default aperture number of the cameras is 4.

Warning: The same aperture setting must be used for the left and
  right camera to avoid degraded image processing performance. Please
  validate that the left and right images appear with the same
  brightness.

After adjusting focus and aperture, all screws must be lightly
tightened and the lens caps must be re-attached.

Warning: It is mandatory to always check calibration after changing
  the focus or aperture of the

  rc_viscore

   stereo camera (see

  Calibration

  ) .

Please

contact support

 in case of questions regarding working distance and focusing of the

rc_viscore

 stereo camera.

Adjust projector focus

During production, the focus of the projector is adjusted to match the
focus distance of the cameras, which is 1.6 m by default (unless
otherwise specified by the customer). Perfectly focusing the projector
is not crucial. A slightly blurred projection pattern will not degrade
the depth image.

To inspect the sharpness of the projector pattern, the projector
should be turned on permanently by setting the

Out1 / Projector

 mode to "High" on the

rc_cube

 Web GUI under Pipeline ... ‣ Camera ‣ IOControl Settings or Pipeline
... ‣ Configuration ‣ IOControl.

The projector focus only needs to be adjusted when the projector
pattern is strongly blurred. In this case, loosen the three small
fixing Phillips screws on the focus ring of the projector lens as
shown in

Fig. 9

. Then, turn the focus ring until the visible projector pattern
becomes sharp. After that, lightly tighten the focus ring screws
again.

Adjust projector aperture

The aperture of the projector influences the brightness of the
projector pattern. By default, the aperture of the projector is fully
open, which means the projector has maximum brightness. The aperture
should be adjusted so that the brightness difference between images
taken with projector and images taken without projector is not too
large, but the projector pattern is still visible in the images taken
with projector. To find the correct setting, make sure the external
light in the working environment is similar to what is expected during
productive mode and the

rc_viscore

 stereo camera is mounted at the desired distance from the scene.

Then, on the

rc_cube

 Web GUI under Pipeline ... ‣ Camera, set the

Exposure

 mode to "Auto" and set the

Auto Exposure Mode

 to "AdaptiveOut1". Also set the

Out1 / Projector

 mode to "ExposureAlternateActive" under

IOControl Settings

, so that every second image is taken with projector pattern. Now, the
text line under the live images shows the

Out1 reduction

 value in percent.

The

Out1 reduction

 value describes the reduction of the brightness of the image without
projection compared to the image with projection. The value should be
between 10% and 20%. A higher

Out1 reduction

 value means, that the projector is too bright compared to the
external lighting, which leads to images without projector patterns
being too dark. Thus, external lighting should be increased, e.g. by
installing an additional light source, or the brightness of the
projector should be reduced by slightly closing the aperture. In
analogy, if the

Out1 reduction

 value is too low, the projector is not bright enough compared to the
external light, which means that the projector pattern will hardly be
visible in the camera images and cannot enhance the depth computation.
So the external light should be reduced or the projector brightness
must be increased by opening the aperture.

The aperture of the projector can be adjusted by loosening the three
small fixing Phillips screws on the iris ring of the projector lens as
shown in

Fig. 9

. Then, turn the iris ring until the

Out1 reduction

 value is in the range between 10% and 20%.

After that, the darkest object that is possible in the application
should be placed in the field of view of the camera. If the dark
object is not properly visible in the depth image, then the projector
brightness must be increased, despite high

Out1 reduction

 values.

In the end, lightly tighten the iris ring screws again.

Please

contact support

 in case of questions regarding adjusting the projector of the

rc_viscore

 stereo camera.

Calibration

After checking and potentially adjusting the focus of the cameras, the
next step is to check the camera calibration. This step should never
be skipped and -- as opposed to all

rc_visard

 products -- is mandatory. Please note that the working range of the

rc_viscore

 stereo camera is pre-defined and the calibration should be checked
for the minimum and maximum working distance. Please

contact support

 in case of questions regarding working distance and calibration of
the

rc_viscore

 stereo camera.

The

rc_cube

 manual explains checking calibration and re-calibrating in detail
(see

https://doc.rc-cube.com/latest/en/camera_calibration.html#verify-
calibration

). The procedure that is described there can be applied in the same
way to the SGM®Producer, by using the *rc_calib* program that is
provided with the producer.

Warning: It is mandatory to always check calibration after mounting
  the

  rc_viscore

   stereo camera, changing the focus or aperture.

Recalibration is only necessary if the reported calibration error is
above 0.3 pixels. After recalibration, also a new hand-eye calibration
is required.

Note: Roboception will deliver the

  rc_viscore

   stereo camera with pre-adjusted focus to make sure it works in the
  desired depth range. Please

  contact support

   and provide your specification to enable us to set up the

  rc_viscore

   stereo camera accordingly. An onsite calibration check is still
  required to make sure that no problem occurred during shipping or
  mounting.
