Troubleshooting

Hardware issues

LED does not illuminate

The

rc_viscore

 stereo camera does not start up.

Ensure that cables are connected and secured properly.

Ensure that adequate DC voltage (24 V) with correct polarity is
applied to the power connector at the pins labeled as Power and Ground
as described in the device's pin assignment specification\:(Section
\ref{hardware_spec:tab-power-pin-assignments}). Connecting the camera
to voltage outside of the specified range, to alternating current,
with reversed polarity, or to a supply with voltage spikes will lead
to permanent hardware damage.

Reliability issues and/or mechanical damage

This may be an indication of ambient conditions (vibration, shock,
resonance, and temperature) being outside of specified range. Please
refer to the

specification of environmental conditions

.

Operating the rc_viscore stereo camera outside of specified ambient
conditions might lead to damage and will void the warranty.

Electrical shock when touching the projector

This indicates an electrical fault in camera, cabling, or power supply
or adjacent system.

Immediately turn off power to the system, disconnect cables, and have
a qualified electrician check the setup.

Ensure that the projector housing is properly grounded; check for
large ground loops.

Sparse depth images

The depth images of the

rc_viscore

 stereo camera, which can be seen on the depth image page in the

rc_cube

's Web GUI or by using the SGM®Producer, may have missing values,
which are shown in black. Missing values near object borders are
normal. If major parts of the depth image are invalid, then this may
be due to the following reasons:

The scene may be out of the current working range of the rc_viscore
stereo camera. Depending on the depth quality, reducing the parameter
Maximum Distance also reduces the possible minimum distance. In the
Web GUI of the rc_cube, the used depth range is given on the depth
image page below the images. Sliders on the depth image page permit to
change the depth range. See also Table 2 for examples of possible
depth ranges.

Depth values may be missing on objects without texture. In this case,
the internal projector should be used for projecting an artificial
texture. For single shot depth images, the Single+Out1 mode should be
selected on the depth image page of the rc_cube's Web GUI . For
continuously computing depth images, the projector should be turned on
for every second image by setting Out1 / Projector to
ExposureAlternateActive in Pipeline ... ‣ Configuration ‣ IOControl .

The internal projector may be too dark to be visible in the scene.
Adjust the external lighting or the aperture of the projector as
described in Adjust projector aperture\:(Section \ref{installation
:sect-adjust-projector-aperture}).

The pattern of the internal projector may be too blurred to support
depth computation. Adjust the focus of the projector as described in
Adjust projector focus\:(Section \ref{installation:sect-adjust-
projector-focus}).

The camera focus may be inadequate for the working range. Please check
the camera focus using a calibration grid as described in Adjust
camera focus\:(Section \ref{installation:sect-adjust-focus}).

The calibration of the rc_viscore stereo camera may be inaccurate.
Please check the calibration as described in Calibration\:(Section
\ref{installation:sect-calibration}).

Dark camera images

The camera images of the

rc_viscore

 stereo camera, which can be seen on the camera page in the

rc_cube

's Web GUI under Pipeline ... ‣ Camera or by using the SGM®Producer,
may be too dark. This can have the following reasons:

The internal projector may be too bright. Increase the external
lighting or reduce the projector brightness by adapting the aperture
of the projector as described in Adjust projector aperture\:(Section
\ref{installation:sect-adjust-projector-aperture}).
